Hey, guys, welcome back.
So this is a common question from Facebook quoting interview and in this question, we're going to be
using singly linked list data structure.
So this question is called remove duplicates from sorted list and given a sorted linked list and delete
all duplicates such that each element appear only once.
So you can see right here is one, one, two.
And what we want to return is one, two, because there's two one.
So we remove the duplicates and here it's one, one, two, three, three.
So we just return one, two, three.
Let me explain this in code.
But I will explain this step by step while I write the code, so we here we have a function called delete
duplicates and it is going to receive the head.
So Head is the head of the linked list, and it is also represents the linked list as a whole.
So that means let me let me give you an example right here.
OK, so the head would be one and also represents the whole linked list, and this is an article right
here that talks about linked lists.
So like areas linked lists is a Leanyer data structure.
Unlike areas linked lists, elements are not sorted at a 10 contiguous location.
The elements are linked using pointers.
So the list actually looks like this.
So eight points to be points of six points A D and then sorry about that, eight points to be and B
points to see and see points to D and D points to know which is the end.
And the head would be the beginning, which is a.
And the data pretty much is the wealth or value, and the next attribute points to the next note.
So each node has a well and a next.
OK, so that's a variable called current, which represents head.
So.
The current load, the current load we are on is the head, and each number is a node, so each node
has a value.
This is the value of that node and the next property, which points to the next node in the linked list.
So this is the next property right here.
So one and then one.
So this is the next property.
So one has a property called next, which points to.
The next note, so this is the next note.
OK.
And note, the last note in the linked list always points to No.
So number three.
The next property will point to note, and that will mean that it's the end of the link to this.
OK, so let me give you, like the whole detailed summary, then I will explain again while writing
the code so to check if there are duplicates.
We need to check if the current notes of well.
Is same as current dot next dot value, so kurnos value, right?
Is same as Kurt Kirk, no current dot next Darwell.
So if it's the same, then we have to point guard DOT next.
So at this node's current dot next to the current dot, next dot next.
So we point this current or next to next dot next to.
So this will pretty much go to and will remove the duplicate one.
It's that simple.
And then we check again.
So we're going to have like a while loop.
So if it's not same.
Then we just resigned current to current or next and continue to look, so let's say we on one and we
removed this one and then one points to two now.
So now two, we check if two value is this node's value is same as the next Noge value.
It's not the same.
So if it's not same, then we just resign the current to current or next.
So we reassign this to.
Current thought next, so we will be pointing to then three and then we'll continue the loop until we
have remove all the duplicates, until we reach No.
So if the current next reference is null, then we're done and we return the head.
OK, so let me write this while loop.
While current does not equal No.
And Kurn not next does not equal the No.
OK, so while the current is not set to no meaning the last node.
Is not no right and.
The next node is not null since the last nodes next could last nodes next points to null.
So we want to check both.
So now we have to check the duplicates.
We need to check if the current noad value is the same as current dot next dot value.
So is current dot.
Next equal current dot.
Next dot next.
So this is the current version and then we're going to check.
Sorry, actually, it is while you wait here.
So if current next, right.
Equal.
Current NextG value.
So if one does not equal the next note.
If it does.
Then we want to skip it.
And DOT next, equal corn dog next door.
Next.
OK, so that way we instead of pointing to this one.
You're pointing the car known to two.
So it's not the same then we just resigned the current to the current next and then continue the loop
until we reached not so current equals current DOT next.
Since one and two are not the same, then what we want to do is move the pointer from one to two.
So the current will equal current next.
Then after we have updated.
A relentless return to had so duplicates have been removed and the list is updated, so we return the
head, which is the entire linked list, not just the beginning.
It's not just pointing to the beginning of the list.
It's not just the head.
It's it's pretty much the entire length list.
And that's it.
Let me run the code, guys, so there is one small problem in this code, so I wonder if you guys noticed
that we're checking current or next critical current dot.
Next dot?
Well, actually, we need to check the current.
Value currency value equals equal current or next value.
And that was the fix to run the code.
And it's working, so your input was one, one, two, and the output came out to be one, two, and
the expected was one, two.
This is all for now.
Let me know if you have any questions and join me on the next one.
Good luck.